README.md, before:

# FlightView

This application is a work in progress intended to be a port to a modularised version of [IGCWebView](https://github.com/GlidingWeb/IGCWebView), intended to improve load times and simplify maintenance.

*IGC Web View* is an IGC viewer written in JavaScript and HTML 5, 
which is able to run in any modern Web browser. It draws the 
glider's flight path onto an interactive map, using the 
[Google Maps Javascript API](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/), and also plots a 
graph of altitude against time. The responsive layout adjusts itself 
to fit any screen size, from a large widescreen monitor to a small 
laptop or even a smartphone.

The application also makes some use of php, and a server side MySQL database containing data on controlled airspace.  The structure of this database is documented in the data_structure.txt file.

There is also a table containing turning point information, accessed via php.

Two further small php files are used for fetching elevation and timezone data from Google services.  These services require keys, as will the main [Google Maps API](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/).  For obvious reasons the keys used in production are not exposed here: you can obtain keys free of charge from the [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/). Registration is required.

Apart from the above, sll processing takes place in client-side script, so there is no 
need to upload the IGC file (or anything else) to the server.



## Browser Support

The browser must support the JavaScript FileReader API, which is 
used to open files from the local hard drive. This API is available 
in most modern browsers, but not in Internet Explorer 9 or earlier 
versions.

# Build instructions for developers

IGC Web View is built using [Webpack](https://webpack.github.io), which
combines all of the JavaScript source code files into a single bundle. This
reduces the page load time for end users by minimising the number of HTTP requests
needed to fetch the scripts. Webpack also provides a `require` directive which
enables script files to reference each other, allowing the code to be broken up
into distinct modules for easier maintenance.

## Prerequisites

First install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org), which is a JavaScript interpreter
that runs outside the browser. This is needed in order to run Webpack.

Note that many major Linux distributions (including Ubuntu) come with an
outdated version of Node. To get a more recent version, and receive regular
security updates, see: [Installing Node.js via package manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager).

Node.js is also available for Windows and Mac OS X.

Once Node is installed, use the Node Package Manager to get Webpack:
```
npm install -g webpack
```
(On Linux systems, this command must be executed with root privileges.)

## Build process

Open a command prompt in the directory where you cloned the
Git repository and type:
```
npm install jquery
```
This will install the jquery library. 

You can then build IGCWebView for debugging simply by typing:
```
webpack
```

This will combine the JavaScript modules into a single file, `bundle.js`,
which is referenced by `index.html` but is deliberately excluded from source
control.

If you would like `webpack` to rerun automatically whenever one of the source
code files changes, open a separate terminal window and type:
```
webpack --watch
```

For production use, the JavaScript should ideally be minified (removing all white space)
in order to reduce its size. This can be achieved by running:
```
webpack -p
```

Commit message:

Store secret API keys in src/apikeys.js.
This file is excluded from source control using a rule in the .gitignore file. API keys can be inserted at build time but will never be visible on GitHub.

README.md, after:

# FlightView

This application is a work in progress intended to be a port to a modularised version of [IGCWebView](https://github.com/GlidingWeb/IGCWebView), intended to improve load times and simplify maintenance.

*IGC Web View* is an IGC viewer written in JavaScript and HTML 5, 
which is able to run in any modern Web browser. It draws the 
glider's flight path onto an interactive map, using the 
[Google Maps Javascript API](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/), and also plots a 
graph of altitude against time. The responsive layout adjusts itself 
to fit any screen size, from a large widescreen monitor to a small 
laptop or even a smartphone.

The application also makes some use of php, and a server side MySQL database containing data on controlled airspace.  The structure of this database is documented in the data_structure.txt file.

There is also a table containing turning point information, accessed via php.

Two further small php files are used for fetching elevation and timezone data from Google services.  These services require keys, as will the main [Google Maps API](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/).  For obvious reasons the keys used in production are not exposed here: you can obtain keys free of charge from the [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/). Registration is required.

Apart from the above, sll processing takes place in client-side script, so there is no 
need to upload the IGC file (or anything else) to the server.



## Browser Support

The browser must support the JavaScript FileReader API, which is 
used to open files from the local hard drive. This API is available 
in most modern browsers, but not in Internet Explorer 9 or earlier 
versions.

# Build instructions for developers

IGC Web View is built using [Webpack](https://webpack.github.io), which
combines all of the JavaScript source code files into a single bundle. This
reduces the page load time for end users by minimising the number of HTTP requests
needed to fetch the scripts. Webpack also provides a `require` directive which
enables script files to reference each other, allowing the code to be broken up
into distinct modules for easier maintenance.

## Prerequisites

### Install Node.js and Webpack

First install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org), which is a JavaScript interpreter
that runs outside the browser. This is needed in order to run Webpack.

Note that many major Linux distributions (including Ubuntu) come with an
outdated version of Node. To get a more recent version, and receive regular
security updates, see: [Installing Node.js via package manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager).

Node.js is also available for Windows and Mac OS X.

Once Node is installed, use the Node Package Manager to get Webpack:
```
npm install -g webpack
```
(On Linux systems, this command must be executed with root privileges.)

### Set up API keys

Create a file `src/apikeys.js` of the form:

```javascript
module.exports = {
    googleMaps: "put your Google Maps API key here"
};
```

This file is excluded from source control to ensure that your key remains secret.

## Build process

Open a command prompt in the directory where you cloned the
Git repository and type:
```
npm install
```
This will install the required libraries (i.e. jQuery). 

You can then build IGCWebView for debugging simply by typing:
```
webpack
```

This will combine the JavaScript modules into a single file, `bundle.js`,
which is referenced by `index.html` but is deliberately excluded from source
control.

If you would like `webpack` to rerun automatically whenever one of the source
code files changes, open a separate terminal window and type:
```
webpack --watch
```

For production use, the JavaScript should ideally be minified (removing all white space)
in order to reduce its size. This can be achieved by running:
```
webpack -p
```
